variant_calls/README.md, before:

# Variant calls
Variant calls are used in genomic investigation to understand genetic variation in a population. These variation can shed information on genetic basis of traitsor disease and the identification of disease-associated variants. Through the comination of computational analysis, statistical methods, and biological interpretation, we can gain insights into the genetic basis of phenotypes and diseases.

## How variant calls can be used in bioinformatics
There are numerous methods available to utilize variant calls for genomic understanding. The following list provides some analyses, though it is important to note that this is not an exhaustive compilation of available methods.

* Population genetic analysis: Assessing the frequency of variants in diverse population
* Functional annotation: Annotate variants to understand if there are potential functional consequences
* Genome-Wide Association Studies (GWAS): GWAS can be used to identify variants associated with specific traits or diseases
* Expression Quantitative Trait Loci (eQTL) Analysis: Gene expression levels can be used to explore the impact of variants on expression
* Linkage of variant data and other omics data: Integrating variant data with ot
her omnics data such as transcriptomics, epigenomics, or proteomics for a more c
omplete understanding.
 
## Getting started
1. Obtain Variant Calls: Variant calls are captured in sequencing data and gener
ated through whole-genome sequencing or whole-exome sequencing
2. Quality control: Evaluate the quality of variant calls to ensure accurate and
 reliable variant identification. You can filter out low quality variants to exclude false positives or variants with insuffient evidence.
3. Visualization: Genome browsers can be used to visualize variant data to further explore the genomic regions and annotated variants 
4. Interpretation: Using known databases you can further investigate if the vari
ant of interest has clinical applications, know pathogenicity, or is a rare or n
ovel variant

Commit message:

script to download vcf file

variant_calls/README.md, after:

# Variant calls
Variant calls are used in genomic investigation to understand genetic variation in a population. These variation can shed information on genetic basis of traitsor disease and the identification of disease-associated variants. Through the comination of computational analysis, statistical methods, and biological interpretation, we can gain insights into the genetic basis of phenotypes and diseases.

## How variant calls can be used in bioinformatics
There are numerous methods available to utilize variant calls for genomic understanding. The following list provides some analyses, though it is important to note that this is not an exhaustive compilation of available methods.

* Population genetic analysis: Assessing the frequency of variants in diverse population
* Functional annotation: Annotate variants to understand if there are potential functional consequences
* Genome-Wide Association Studies (GWAS): GWAS can be used to identify variants associated with specific traits or diseases
* Expression Quantitative Trait Loci (eQTL) Analysis: Gene expression levels can be used to explore the impact of variants on expression
* Linkage of variant data and other omics data: Integrating variant data with ot
her omnics data such as transcriptomics, epigenomics, or proteomics for a more c
omplete understanding.
 
## Getting started
1. Obtain Variant Calls: Variant calls are captured in sequencing data and generated through whole-genome sequencing or whole-exome sequencing
Use wget_vcf.sh to download vcf files from The 1000 Genomes Project.
2. Quality control: Evaluate the quality of variant calls to ensure accurate and
 reliable variant identification. You can filter out low quality variants to exclude false positives or variants with insuffient evidence.
3. Visualization: Genome browsers can be used to visualize variant data to further explore the genomic regions and annotated variants 
4. Interpretation: Using known databases you can further investigate if the vari
ant of interest has clinical applications, know pathogenicity, or is a rare or n
ovel variant

## Resources
Public archive that contains genomic data associated with variant calls
* [The 1000 Genomes Project](https://www.internationalgenome.org/)
* NIH [dbSNP](https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/snp/)
* Genome Aggregation Database [(gnomAD)](https://gnomad.broadinstitute.org/)
Grch38: [GATK resources](https://gatk.broadinstitute.org/hc/en-us/articles/360035890811-Resource-bundle) for files needed for variant discovery.
